python/data/chap2/README.rst, before:

Chapter 2 - Data Organization
=============================

Test files for testing the general layout of files, defined in Chapter 2 of
rp66v1. This includes, but not limited to segmentation between Logical- and
Visible Records, Storage Unit Labels, padbytes and garbage data.

=================================== ===========================================
File                                Description
=================================== ===========================================
1lr-in-2vrs.dlis                    A logical record spanning 2 visible records

2lr-in-vr.dlis                      2 logical records in 1 visible record

3lrs-in-vr.dlis                     A single visible record with one logical
                                    record segmented into 3 logical record
                                    segments

3lr-in-vr-one-encrypted.dlis        Single VR with with 3 logical records, one
                                    encrypted

7K-file.dlis                        Testing that files between 4 and 8 kB are
                                    read correctly.

attrs-inconsistency-type-pred.dlis  First implicit lrs expects successor, but
                                    what follows is an explicit lrs with no
                                    predecessor

fileheaders-inconsistency.dlis      First implicit lrs expects successor, but
                                    what follows is a new Logical File

incomplete-sul.dlis                 Incomplete storage unit label

incomplete-vr.dlis                  Incomplete visible record

nondlis.txt                         Not a dlis file

old-vr.dlis                         Older visible record, see 2.3.6.2 Format
                                    Version of rp66v1

padbytes-bad.dlis                   Mismatch between padbyte length and logical
                                    record length

padbytes-encrypted.dlis             Explicitly formatted logical record with
                                    encrypted padbytes

padbytes-large-as-record.dlis       padbytes length == logical record length

padbytes-large-as-seg-explicit.dlis padbytes length == logical record segment
                                    length, explict record

padbytes-large-as-seg-implicit.dlis padbytes length == logical record segment
                                    length, implicit record

pre-sul-garbage.dlis                Garbage before the storage unit label

pre-sul-pre-vrl-garbage.dlis        Garbage before storage unit label and
                                    visible record

small.dlis                          Test file smaller than 4kB

too-small-record.dlis               Visible record is smaller than the minimum
                                    requirement (20Bytes)

truncated-in-lrsh.dlis              File is truncated in the LRSH

truncated-on-full-lr.dlis           File is truncated on a complete LR, but not
                                    VR

truncated-in-second-lr.dlis         Mismatch between visible record length and
                                    remaining bytes. Second LR truncated

truncated-on-lrs-in-vr.dlis         LRS expects successor, but none comes. File
                                    is truncated. VR is also truncated

truncated-on-lrs-vr-over.dlis       LRS expects successor, but none comes. File
                                    is truncated. LRS and VR ends align

wrong-lrhs.dlis                     Mismatch between logical record segment
                                    length and remaining bytes in visible
                                    record (LRSH length is bigger than VR
                                    length)

zeroed-in-1st-lr.dlis               VR is expected to contain over 1 LR. Data is
                                    zeroed from middle of 1st LR

zeroed-in-2nd-lr.dlis               VR contains 2 LRs. Data is zeroed in the
                                    middle of 2nd LR

=================================== ===========================================

Commit message:

Fail truncated files in findoffsets
There were several places where truncated files could fail, but as
truncated files could be detected on markers level, we should inform
user about that early.

python/data/chap2/README.rst, after:

Chapter 2 - Data Organization
=============================

Test files for testing the general layout of files, defined in Chapter 2 of
rp66v1. This includes, but not limited to segmentation between Logical- and
Visible Records, Storage Unit Labels, padbytes and garbage data.

=================================== ===========================================
File                                Description
=================================== ===========================================
1lr-in-2vrs.dlis                    A logical record spanning 2 visible records

2lr-in-vr.dlis                      2 logical records in 1 visible record

3lrs-in-vr.dlis                     A single visible record with one logical
                                    record segmented into 3 logical record
                                    segments

3lr-in-vr-one-encrypted.dlis        Single VR with with 3 logical records, one
                                    encrypted

7K-file.dlis                        Testing that files between 4 and 8 kB are
                                    read correctly.

attrs-inconsistency-type-pred.dlis  First implicit lrs expects successor, but
                                    what follows is an explicit lrs with no
                                    predecessor

fileheaders-inconsistency.dlis      First implicit lrs expects successor, but
                                    what follows is a new Logical File

incomplete-sul.dlis                 Incomplete storage unit label

incomplete-vr.dlis                  Incomplete visible record

nondlis.txt                         Not a dlis file

old-vr.dlis                         Older visible record, see 2.3.6.2 Format
                                    Version of rp66v1

padbytes-bad.dlis                   Mismatch between padbyte length and logical
                                    record length

padbytes-encrypted.dlis             Explicitly formatted logical record with
                                    encrypted padbytes

padbytes-large-as-record.dlis       padbytes length == logical record length

padbytes-large-as-seg-explicit.dlis padbytes length == logical record segment
                                    length, explict record

padbytes-large-as-seg-implicit.dlis padbytes length == logical record segment
                                    length, implicit record

pre-sul-garbage.dlis                Garbage before the storage unit label

pre-sul-pre-vrl-garbage.dlis        Garbage before storage unit label and
                                    visible record

small.dlis                          Test file smaller than 4kB

too-small-record.dlis               Visible record is smaller than the minimum
                                    requirement (20Bytes)

truncated-in-lrsh.dlis              File is truncated in the LRSH

truncated-on-full-lr.dlis           File is truncated on a complete LR, but not
                                    VR

truncated-in-only-iflr.dlis         Truncated one byte before expected end of
                                    long IFLR

truncated-in-second-lr.dlis         Mismatch between visible record length and
                                    remaining bytes. Second LR truncated

truncated-on-lrs-in-vr.dlis         LRS expects successor, but none comes. File
                                    is truncated. VR is also truncated

truncated-on-lrs-vr-over.dlis       LRS expects successor, but none comes. File
                                    is truncated. LRS and VR ends align

wrong-lrhs.dlis                     Mismatch between logical record segment
                                    length and remaining bytes in visible
                                    record (LRSH length is bigger than VR
                                    length)

zeroed-in-1st-lr.dlis               VR is expected to contain over 1 LR. Data is
                                    zeroed from middle of 1st LR

zeroed-in-2nd-lr.dlis               VR contains 2 LRs. Data is zeroed in the
                                    middle of 2nd LR

=================================== ===========================================
